Now what I'd like to do is actually
move in here and actually break my test on purpose.
Right now I have expected one for one student,
but let's set the value to five.
Say, we're trying to say,
"Hey, maybe there's five students in the database."
And now let's go ahead and run this test
and see what the results are.
And as expected, this test fails, right?
Because we only have one student in database
but here we're doing an insert for five.
So we somehow need to add five students to the database
for this given test.
And you're thinking, well, maybe we can just do
this setup sample data here,
so I could just copy this line
and then just go through and paste it X number of times.
Well, we could do that, but you know,
maybe for this given test, we want to seed different data
and not use the same data every time.
So, I'll let you kind of pull back on that
and I'll just leave this setup database
like I had it originally, you're just adding one student.
And what I'd like to do is set up a SQL file
that would have the data.
So under my resources, I'm going to create this new file
called insertData.sql.
And so it's just a plain text file here, right?
InsertData.sql,
and I'll just drop in the SQL for adding these students.
And what I'll do is I'll add some SQL
for inserting four students.
I'll start here with the us to entry here
of insert into student.
And I'll give the values for the ID,
first name, last name and email address.
Okay, this looks really good for the first entry.
And so now we'll do this for a total of four students.
So if you'd like you can kind of just copy paste,
make some small mods.
Here, I'll simply just type out
the other three entries on this line.
So, either way you can just type it out manually
or you can do a copy paste, it's totally up to you.
Now what we'll like to do is actually
use this file in our test.
I can move back over to my StudentAndGradeServiceTest
and back down to the example
where we had assert equals five.
Right before the test annotation,
I can add a new annotation for SQL
to actually load and execute SQL for this given test.
So I have the SQL annotation
and give a reference to the file.
That same file that I just created, insertData.sql.
So this will actually execute the SQL
before this given test method.
Now you may wonder about, "Well, they they were four each,
"which one will execute first."
Well, the BeforeEach will execute first,
then it'll execute the SQL annotation for this given method.
Okay, so this looks pretty good.
Now let's go ahead and execute it.
Great, so this test passes because
we have five students in our database.
We get one student from the BeforeEach method
and we get four students from the SQL annotation
of loading that insertData.sql
because in that file we added four students.
And so that's why this given test passes for
a total of five students.
I love it, this is really cool.
Good job.